So we left off with just connecting our redux or to our reactor application but now we're trying to
get some specific state into our component the way that we bring in a redux state Turia component by
passing in a function as the first parameter to connect.
And that function is traditionally called maps feed into props.
So inside of here I'm simply just going to pass maps data props and Aceves And let's go back in the
browser and see what happens.
Get rid of this debugger from last time let's go of the page.
And we still get this cannot read property to the use of NO.
So great now let's go.
Just simply take this to do is raise here and we're just going to map over some empty array just so
that it has something kind of silly for now.
So I'll refresh the page and we're actually going to see that we get a warning Majesty to props in Kinect
must return a plain object instead received undefined.
Well that's a good hint.
Maps the props always has to return an object and the first parameter that we get in maps the to props
is our redux state.
So why don't we right now throw a debugger.
We're going to return an empty object.
Let's go see what this looks like.
Redux steede contains our to do's and that id.
What we've just done right here is passed been a function to connect.
We call that maps that are prop's Let's call this function traverse.
We'll see that refresh the page and we'll see once again it doesn't matter what you call the function.
But try this is not a great name we should call it maps state to prop's that's usually what it's called.
And the reason is we are turning our redox state into props on the re-act component.
Well hold on a second.
How do we do that.
Well this object that we return all of the keys will be placed on this stop props for the component.
So I'm going to place a property up to use which is going to be my redux state and whatever the two
dues are that are there.
Remember this redux.
Start to do's.
It's going to go to my reducer.
It's going to go grab whatever the state has and figure out what those to use are.
One of the hardest things about connecting react and redux is figuring out how data flows through out
an application.
So let's set a bunch of debuggers and see how it all comes together.
I'm going to set a debugger inside of my To Do list.
I'm going to put a debugger in a render I'm going to put a debugger in maps the two props and I'm going
to put a debugger in my reducer.
Let's see which one gets visited first.
Let's go.
I don't want to ruin the fun.
Refresh the page.
The first place we get to is the reducer because remember when we connect our react and our redux store
we always need to run that create store function that's going to go and retrieve our initial state.
We then go directly to maps the props so that we can take our initial state and place it in the component.
Remember we said that we map the redux feed to prompts that so we take a look at this that prop's we
actually see our to.
We got that from maps state props and we move along.
So when you understand how Drina flows through an application it's going to be a lot easier to wrap
your head around all the things that are happening.
But what we've done right now is taken our to do lists component and we have connected it to our redux
store not only through using connect but also by making sure that we have the provider component to
specify what store we're actually connecting to.
Member there's only one store we're going to connect to that single store.
We are going to then grab whatever state we want and place it on this thought process.
What's great here is we first go once again to the reproducer where do we go next.
I'm even gas maps lead to props and then we go to render.
Now this props that map is not a function.
Well that's because it's the proper stuff to use the map.
So I see that must get rid of some of these debuggers take that out in my reproducer as well.
So right now I'm just getting some initial state and I'm rendering a bunch of CDs.
That's really all we're doing right here.
Now I'm not going to get very far if I don't actually start adding some to use so I'm going to need
the ability to add to use and to remove to do this.
How do we do that.
All we can make a form inside of our to do list component.
You can make this a separate component but we're going to keep it really simple.
Right now what I'm going to do is simply render inside of here in this form when submitted is going
to run some specific re-act function.
So I'll say Ansermet we could use some thing like this that handle submit.
You might remember whatever you do method binding.
You got to make sure you do it right here.
So we'll say this that handles submit is equal to this that handles submit.
Bind this one to only do that one time.
It also means that I need to handle submit function with some kind of event when this form is submitted.
We'll do something.
I don't know what that something is but we'll figure it out.
Same thing as before with the query we want to input with some text we can give that a name of task
and some idea of task can also give this a label make sure we have that for our task as well.
Now we're going to want some kind of button and inside of here if we don't need all the styling we'll
keep it simple.
We simply just want the ability to say add a to do.
Now if you remember let's go refresh this page right here.
I don't know GSX omens must be wrapped in inclosing.
So in this case to me this all a div or your first page.
And here's our task.
And that's awesome.
But what do we actually do with this task right here.
How do we get that text.
Sent somewhere how do we see even what the user typed in.
Well we need to introduce some re-act state.
And what's that going to be.
We'll see.
The task is an empty string.
You've seen this before when you've worked in forms.
What do we want to do right here when there's a change going to call this that handle change.
And you've seen this stuff before.
Handle change.
You want to make a pretty simple function here.
That's basically going to say either target value.
Going to be whatever we pass it.
So this should allow us to change that specific input.
This is the idea of a controlled input.
What's going on here.
Unexpected token to make sure that we have an extra property right here at Target.
So here this is simply a function that's going to call this that set the state and we're going to pass
in whatever we typed in that value.
So let's go refresh the page.
We can always check this out in our redux reactive tools.
We'll connect right here.
See if we get that provider and and everything inside of our to do list.
We have a little bit of Steve but it looks like we're not changing that state cannot read property said
Steve of undefined.
That said state what do we forget to do.
Does that handle change.
Always got to make sure to do that point you know refresh the page try it again or type in.
Also let's go to a quick look at RDX the make sure that we're doing that correctly and inside of here
inside of our input we have that ID that name and that text inside of here we have a task which is an
array with awesome.
So what do we do with the specific value.
RAKER Well we have to grab that when it is submitted.
So why don't we inside have handle it through a debugger.
We're going to save this.
We're going to make sure that we prevent the default before we do that.
We don't want any page refresh here so we can refresh the page and we can type in Hello.
We had that task.
So your quick look at just that.
And we should see that we have some kind of task but how come it's coming in as an array.
Silly me just want that to be the value right there.
Let's go in.
Awesome.
Take a quick look at this.
That's the we should see that the task is awesome.
So this is just a simple way of collecting value in a form as you go through this you're going to make
little typos here and there and that's totally fine.
But when you're dealing with reata even before you get to redux you want to make sure you understand
how to deal with controlled inputs how to deal with method binding.
Before you get to any of the redux stuff make sure your reac fundamentals are really solid.
When I submit something what I like to do is add that new to do.
But how do I add that to do.
Well I dispatch in action so remember that since our component is connected we have the ability to dispatch
actions.
So back in here I'm going to type in awesome and we're going to take a look at the component that we
have right now using the key word this inside of.
And I'll bring this up a little bit so we can make them visible inside of this component.
We have a property called props and if we take a look at these props we see that we have the ability
to dispatch actions.
So what we could do is directly dispatch our action of our to do let's go get out of this debugger bring
this back for a quick second because what I want to do is set a couple of break points when I dispatch
an action we are going to dispatch
an action and that action is going to be hard to do and the task is going to be whatever that's the
task that's when we're done with this we can make sure to clear the value in that form by setting the
state to be an empty string.
In this case we'll just that this that our task.
So we are going to dispatch.
To do that's going to go where to our producer.
So let's make sure that we get there correctly.
We're going to put a debugger here are going to see that we're going to refresh the page.
In fact we're going to put a debugger as well inside of our maps to prompts and we'll put it inside
of our render.
This is going to be fun.
We have our debuggers back in place.
Let's try to remember how the data flows through out an application.
So let's refresh the page.
The first place we start reversals again first place we start is in our maps data prompts.
I want to make sure that we have a debugger right here as well.
We start in map state to prop's because we just got our initial state that is then going to place on
prop's a key have to do and whatever the value is are to do array.
We're then going to render this component when we type in some kind of task.
The components are always going to be rendered because we're calling that state is going to type in
a simple task of a.
When I add that to do we make it to our reducer because I've just dispatched an action and once we return
a new state we go back to map state to prop's notice here.
This is my object with to and an idea of one.
We then finally go back to render and we get an error.
It all breaks while objects are not valid as Riak children.
The above error occurred with a list item.
Well that's OK we can fix that up in a little bit.
What I want to show you is simply just how this data flows in our application.
So what we're going to do is fix that bug and see why this failed to render.
So since we're rendering an object now we want to make sure that we pass in that specific task right
there as the value.
You'll also want to make sure that we do is simply just reset that form so that we don't set things
individually.
So let's go take a look at what our to do is look like we're going to go eat or go sleep and we'll go
home.
What we have now is actually the ability to add those to use to our state.
Remember if we're using the redux dev tools we actually should be able to see what this looks like.
Let's go bring this out a little bit.
Bring this over here if we wanted to actually see what it would look like if we didn't have these to
do's we can now change these values since our redux story is connected to our yakked application.
We can see what it would be like if we reset everything if you ever want to make sure that you're using
pure functions.
You could always check in a redux dev tools and make sure that things are behaving as usual.
Now notice here we're dispatching action had to do with the task of How about now and look at our dues.
This looks great we're using pure functions.
We took out this one.
This is what it would look like if we time traveled a bit Mosco bring it back to get rid of this one.
Let's bring it back.
This gives you such control over debugging and seeing how data changes in your application.
So what makes redux so so wonderful.
So the last thing we need to do now is figure out how to handle removing to do this or going to do is
pass in the ability for all our to do's to remove any specific to do.
So what we want to do inside of here is pass in a prop of remove to say this is where we're going to
pass in some function called remove to do and when we remove it to do we want to make sure that we get
the right I.D. for that to do.
So what we're going to do is when we remove it to do we're simply going to pass in that 80 every time
that we make it to do will correctly bind it with the right to do.
And up here when we remove it to do we'll have a function which is going to dispatch the action to remove
a to do this component.
Right now we also call a container it's going to contain or be Doxey.
And how do we remove it to do.
Well why don't we stop props that dispatch.
Remember this function is going to accept some kind of ID right here.
We're going to dispatch some action with the type of removed to do and an ID or whatever is passed to
it.
So we have to make sure in our to do component that we actually have a button to add and remove that
we have a button to remove.
So inside of this list item we're going to go and add a button and here on this button we are going
to make sure that we have an on click of remove to do.
And here we just add a big old pics right there.
So let's go refresh the page and let's go eat.
And when we click on this cannot read Property dispatch of undefined.
So what's the problem here when we try to use the stop prompts that dispatch.
Well let's go take a look at our to do list inside of here.
We're trying to use the word this but we don't get the right value of this thought process.
So same thing as before this move to to make sure that we bring the correct value of the key word this.
Let's go eat.
I'm going to move right now.
Looks like we're getting nothing.
When I click on this nothing happens.
So how can we make sure that everything's working as correct.
Well let's go set a debugger and make sure that we're getting to that remove action.
Let's go Tribus had it to do and remove it.
And notice here what we're getting as the idea we're getting this dispatch config and everything.
Well that's because we're actually getting the event object.
So we want to make sure that we pass the correct value for ID.
So we'll go and sleep we'll go debug here.
We can see that event is the event object and ID is undefined.
Well why is ID undefined.
What are we doing here.
That's not correct.
So when we're doing this by the way we want to make sure that we first pass in as the value of buying
the key word this otherwise we're not going to get very far.
So let's go see what happens when we try to remove it to do.
We're going to dispatch remove to do with that I.D. And let's see what happens.
We're going to eat the clock on this.
It's gone.
Sleep.
Go home.
When we click on this it's removed.
How is all of this happening.
We've coded this very quickly but I want to take a big step back and go through each piece of this logic.
The first thing that we did is we connected our reactor application with our redux store.
We did that using the provider component.
We created a redux or we're using the redux tools and we create a store just like before using a reducer.
None of this has changed.
Reproducer comes from that file called reducer that has inside of here.
We're simply bringing in our Constancio add or remove to do.
Those are just strings and the rest is the same as what we had before that redux logic is really going
to stay the same.
So we started with building on some building blocks.
That's why we started with some vanilla redux just figure out how data flows and redux build your re-act
fundamentals and bringing the two together is going to be a lot easier.
So what we then took a look at was how to actually connect this list with some relax date.
We saw that a lot of it happens with this connect function.
And the first function that connect accepts is maps the to props.
This is where we go and grab some redux state and place it on props in that component.
We then go through all the props and print out a whole bunch of Tutu's or essentially render a bunch
of Tadeusz we're passing in a prop of remove to do whatever the task is.
And some kind of key so that we're OK with react.
This is not the best way to do it.
There are better ways but we're going to stay simple once again when we remove it to do we dispatch
remove it to do with the right I.D. which we get from binding.
And when we add it to do we simply get whatever submitted in the form and then reset those form values
what's important to understand here is we dispatch those actions and we render the component.
So once again let's set some breakpoints and see exactly how things change in our application.
I'll set this on render as well and go back to my reproducer as well.
So once again let's see if you can figure out how all the data flows.
I'm going to refresh the page and the first place we go once again it's always to the root reducer because
we run create store.
This is the initial redux action.
We're then going to go to maps the props so that we can place any redux state on props and we're going
to render the component.
Right now I'm going to type in something which is going to set the stage and render the component again
so that the re-act state here now redux.
And then I'm going to add it to do when I added to do once again I go right back to the root reducer
because I've dispatched an action of ad to do when I successfully return this new state.
I go right back to map state the props and inside of here that I now have my new redux.
I then read render the component with my new to do let's do it again.
I type in a letter.
I am running this that sets the.
So the code is actually setting the breakpoint right here.
Is this over here since I'm just changing a little bit of re-act state right here the component is going
to render but no redux date is being changed.
I'm going to add it to do and before I do it remember we're going to go to the root reducer in the root
reducer.
I've dispatched to do so we should hit this line as well.
Once we return this new object we go right back to maps that prompts this function keeps running.
It gives us our new redock state and once again we render the component.
How about removing one of these same kind of thing we're going to go back to the root reducer.
Except here we're removing it to do.
And once we remove that we're going to then return a new redux D Once we return that new redux date
we go back to maps the props.
We put our new redux date on props in that component and we render that component once again.
Would that encourage you to try to build now is the ability to update some of these seduce and the leader
screencast we can add to react router to the mix.
But what's really hard to wrap your head around is just how all this data flows in an application.
The more debuggers you can set the more you can step through the better you're going to understand how
it all comes together.
I'll see you in the next week.